Improve wifi coex doc (#10766)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/wifi_coex/index.rst

.. _ug_radio_coex:

> Coexistence of short-range radio and other radios

Reviewer: Is this change based on some PMT requirements? Although surely technically correct, I wonder if there really are other use cases then using this with Wi-Fi. Even if there are I doubt we can really say they are supported, as until now we've only tested it with Wi-Fi. I'm afraid if for the sake of precision we aren't loosing clearness of the text for people using the most common use case.

However if we go with the generic "other radios" I would suggest adding "e.g. WiFi" next to each "other protocols" statement .

Author: Exactly what @jciupis said. There is Bluetooth-only 1-wire coexistence, which is for LTE. The term is intentionally wider than just Wi-Fi.

Author: The term Wi-Fi or LTE is in the page content. Search will match. By the way on sdk-nrf repo level this is now the only chapter  about any coexistence. Especially moved misplaced Bluetooth-only 1-wire into this chapter.

Coexistence based on MPSL CX API
================================

It is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_cx` provided by the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library and is recommended for new designs.

The following SR protocols are compatible with the coexistence based on MPSL CX API:

   * :ref:`Bluetooth LE <ug_ble_controller>` if implementation used is :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>`
   * Protocols based on :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_802154` such as :ref:`ug_thread` and :ref:`ug_zigbee`.

This way of providing coexistence applies to the following implementations:

   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_nrf700x`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_generic_3wire`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_custom`

The |NCS| provides a wrapper that configures Wi-Fi Coexistence based on devicetree (DTS) and Kconfig information.

Common requirements to use coexistence based on MPSL CX API:

1. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL` is enabled.
   Please note that some protocol drivers like :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>` enable this option by default.
2. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` is enabled.

> 3. Make sure you meet requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation.

Reviewer 2: This statement is a bit vague in its current shape. What do you think about adding an example to help the reader understand what kind of requirements could be specific to the selected implementation? I mean something like:
> For example in case of nRF700x, additional Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_NRF700X` must be enabled. This requirement is specific for nRF700x coexistence implementation. Other coexistence implementations might have different requirements or have no additional requirements at all. For further details on requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation refer to the documentation of that implementation.

Author: All these requirements are described for given implementation, please see chapter Enabling nRF700x Wi-Fi coexistence, there is about CONFIG_MPSL_CX_NRF700X.

Reviewer 2: > All these requirements are described for given implementation

Yes, but the original idea of this bullet point "Make sure you meet requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation." was to make the user aware that these generic requirements common for all implementations might not be enough. If you want to avoid duplication then maybe it's enough to add something like:

> Make sure you meet requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation. For details on requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation refer to the documentation of that implementation.

In my opinion without any additional example or information this information doesn't help much.

Author: @jciupis changed a bit. Is it enough?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's very good now 👍

   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_generic_3wire`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_custom`

The |NCS| provides a wrapper that configures Wi-Fi Coexistence based on devicetree (DTS) and Kconfig information.

Common requirements to use coexistence based on MPSL CX API:

1. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL` is enabled.
   Please note that some protocol drivers like :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>` enable this option by default.
2. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` is enabled.
3. Make sure you meet requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation.
   These include at least selecting one of supported values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_CHOICE` choice.
   For details on requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation please refer to the documentation of that implementation.
4. Make sure a ``nrf_radio_coex`` node appropriate for selected implementation is present in the devicetree.
   When using one of the supported implementations, you must use the ``nrf_radio_coex`` name for the node.
   However, if you add a custom user implementation, you can also use a different name.

>    Please note that some boards supported by the |NCS| provide this node out of the box.

Author: added reference to nrf7002dk_nrf5340

   You can provide the node using the devicetree source file of the target board or an overlay file.
   See :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide` for more information about the DTS data structure, and :ref:`zephyr:dt_vs_kconfig` for information about differences between DTS and Kconfig.
5. You can add a new device binding and use it as the ``compatible`` property for the node, if the provided hardware interfaces are unsuitable.

.. note::

>    When using the nRF5340, steps 1 and 2 above apply only for the NET core.

Author: steps 1 and 2 are about Kconfigs (CONFIG_MPSL, CONFIG_MPSL_CX)  not about pin forwarding

>    When using the nRF5340, steps 1 and 2 above apply only for the NET core.

Author: inserted point 5.

However, if both SR and the other radio attempt to transmit simultaneously, the radio frequency (RF) waves interfere with each other, causing decreased performance and unneeded higher power consumption.
Also, in cases like receiving an acknowledgment (ACK), radios should not transmit to ensure correct reception.

These issues are defined as coexistence issues.
To mitigate these issues and to improve performance, a Packet Traffic Arbiter (PTA) is used.
When both SR and the other radio request access to RF, the Packet Traffic Arbiter grants or denies that access.

Integration considerations
**************************

The |NCS| provides the coexistence feature by providing SR protocol drivers capable of calling coexistence API and coexistence implementations implementing the mentioned API.
The coexistence feature are provided in following ways:

   * :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_based`

.. _ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based:

Coexistence based on MPSL CX API
================================

> It is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_cx` provided by the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library and is recommended for new designs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This coexistence feature is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_cx` provided by the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library.
It is recommended for new designs.
```

The following SR protocols are compatible with the coexistence based on MPSL CX API:

>    * :ref:`Bluetooth LE <ug_ble_controller>` if implementation used is :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :ref:`Bluetooth LE <ug_ble_controller>`, if the implementation used is the :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>`.
```

>    * Protocols based on :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_802154` such as :ref:`ug_thread` and :ref:`ug_zigbee`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Protocols based on :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_802154`, such as :ref:`ug_thread` and :ref:`ug_zigbee`.
```

This way of providing coexistence applies to the following implementations:

   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_nrf700x`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_generic_3wire`
   * :ref:`ug_radio_mpsl_cx_custom`

> The |NCS| provides a wrapper that configures Wi-Fi Coexistence based on devicetree (DTS) and Kconfig information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The |NCS| provides a wrapper that configures Wi-Fi Coexistence based on devicetree source (DTS) and Kconfig information.
```

> Common requirements to use coexistence based on MPSL CX API:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following are the common requirements to use coexistence based on the MPSL CX API:
```

1. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL` is enabled.
   Please note that some protocol drivers like :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>` enable this option by default.
2. Make sure that Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX` is enabled.
3. Make sure you meet requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation.

>    These include at least selecting one of supported values of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_CHOICE` choice.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   These include at least selecting one of supported values of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_CHOICE` choice.
```

>    For details on requirements specific to selected coexistence implementation please refer to the documentation of that implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   For details on the requirements specific to the selected coexistence implementation, consult its documentation.
```

> 4. Make sure a ``nrf_radio_coex`` node appropriate for selected implementation is present in the devicetree.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Ensure that the configuration of the ``nrf_radio_coex`` node appropriate for the selected implementation is present in the devicetree.
```

   When using one of the supported implementations, you must use the ``nrf_radio_coex`` name for the node.
   However, if you add a custom user implementation, you can also use a different name.

>    Please note that some boards supported by the |NCS| (like :ref:`nrf7002dk_nrf5340 <nrf7002dk_nrf5340>`) provide this node out of the box.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Some boards supported by the |NCS| (like :ref:`nrf7002dk_nrf5340 <nrf7002dk_nrf5340>`) provide this node by default.
```

>    You can provide the node using the devicetree source file of the target board or an overlay file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You can provide the node using either the devicetree source file of the target board or an overlay file.
```

   See :ref:`zephyr:dt-guide` for more information about the DTS data structure, and :ref:`zephyr:dt_vs_kconfig` for information about differences between DTS and Kconfig.

> 5. For the nRF5340 SoC make sure the GPIO pins required for communication with PTA are handed over to the network core.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. On the nRF5340 SoC, the GPIO pins required for the communication with the PTA must be handed over to the network core.
```

   This can be achieved by using the ``nrf-gpio-forwarder`` node in application's core devicetree.
6. You can add a new device binding and use it as the ``compatible`` property for the node, if the provided hardware interfaces are unsuitable.

.. note::
   When using the nRF5340, steps 1 and 2 above apply only for the NET core.
   See :ref:`ug_multi_image`.

.. _ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_based:

MPSL provided Bluetooth-only coexistence
========================================

This way of providing coexistence applies to the following implementations:

   * :ref:`ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_1wire`

It is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:bluetooth_coex` provided by the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library.

Supported implementations
*************************

.. _ug_radio_mpsl_cx_nrf700x:

nRF700x Wi-Fi coexistence
=========================

Please refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based` for general requirements of this implementation.

Hardware description
--------------------

The nRF700x interface consists of signals listed in the table below.

> The *Pin* is the pin name of nRF700x device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *Pin* is the pin name of the nRF700x device.
```

.. _ug_radio_mpsl_cx_generic_3wire:

Generic three wire coexistence
==============================

Please refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based` for general requirements of this implementation.

Hardware description
--------------------

The generic three wire interface consists of signals listed in the table below.
The *Pin* is a generic pin name of a PTA, identified rather by its function.
The *Direction* is from point of view of the SoC running SR protocol.
The *DT property* is the name of devicetree node property that configures connection between SoC running SR protocol and nRF700x.

.. table:: Generic three wire coexistence protocol pins

   ============  =========  =================================  ==============
   Pin           Direction  Description                        DT property
   ============  =========  =================================  ==============
   REQUEST       Out        Request signal                     req-gpios
   PRIORITY      Out        SR transaction direction TX or RX  pri-dir-gpios
   GRANT         In         Grant signal                       grant-gpios
   ============  =========  =================================  ==============

> Enabling nRF700x Wi-Fi coexistence

Reviewer 2: This should be `Enabling generic three wire coexistence`

Author: fixed

.. _ug_radio_mpsl_cx_generic_3wire:

Generic three wire coexistence
==============================

Please refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based` for general requirements of this implementation.

Hardware description
--------------------

The generic three wire interface consists of signals listed in the table below.
The *Pin* is a generic pin name of a PTA, identified rather by its function.
The *Direction* is from point of view of the SoC running SR protocol.
The *DT property* is the name of devicetree node property that configures connection between SoC running SR protocol and nRF700x.

.. table:: Generic three wire coexistence protocol pins

   ============  =========  =================================  ==============
   Pin           Direction  Description                        DT property
   ============  =========  =================================  ==============
   REQUEST       Out        Request signal                     req-gpios
   PRIORITY      Out        SR transaction direction TX or RX  pri-dir-gpios
   GRANT         In         Grant signal                       grant-gpios
   ============  =========  =================================  ==============

> Enabling generic three wire coexistence

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enabling generic three-wire coexistence
```

---------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

To enable the generic three-wire coexistence, do the following:

```

> 1. Add the following node in the devicetree source file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add the following node to the devicetree source file:
```

   *  ``802154_rpmsg`` for applications having support for 802.15.4, but not for Bluetooth.
   *  ``hci_rpmsg`` for application having support for Bluetooth, but not for 802.15.4.

> #. Make sure the following Kconfig options are enabled:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Enable the following Kconfig options:
```

   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX`
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_THREAD`

.. _ug_radio_mpsl_cx_custom:

> User custom coexistence implementations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom coexistence implementations
```

=======================================

> Please refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based` for general requirements that must be fulfilled by the implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_mpsl_cx_based` for the general requirements that must be fulfilled by the implementation.
```

> To add custom coexistence implementation based on MPSL CX API complete following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add a custom coexistence implementation based on the MPSL CX API, complete following steps:
```

> 1. Determine hardware interface for your PTA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Determine the hardware interface of your PTA.
```

>    If your PTA uses interface other than already provided by |NCS| you need to provide devicetree binding file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If your PTA uses an interface different from the ones already provided by the |NCS|, you need to provide a devicetree binding file.
```

>    Please see :file:`nrf/dts/bindings/radio_coex/generic-radio-coex-three-wire.yaml` file as an example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   See :file:`nrf/dts/bindings/radio_coex/generic-radio-coex-three-wire.yaml` file for an example.
```

> #. Extend Kconfig choice :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_CHOICE` with Kconfig option allowing to select the new coex implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Extend the Kconfig choice :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_CHOICE` with a Kconfig option allowing to select the new coex implementation.
```

> #. Write implementation for your PTA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Write the implementation for your PTA.
```

>    Please see :file:`nrf/subsys/mpsl/cx/thread/mpsl_cx_thread.c` file as an example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   See the :file:`nrf/subsys/mpsl/cx/thread/mpsl_cx_thread.c` file for an example.
```

>    Add C source file(s) with implementation, which must contain the following parts:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Add the C source file(s) with the implementation, which must contain the following parts:
```

>    * Implementation of functions required by interface structure :c:struct:`mpsl_cx_interface_t`.
>      Please refer to :ref:`MPSL CX API <mpsl_api_sr_cx>` for details.
>    * Initialization code initializing required hardware resources, based on devicetree information.
>    * Call to function :c:func:`mpsl_cx_interface_set()` on system initialization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * The implementation of the functions required by the interface structure :c:struct:`mpsl_cx_interface_t`.
     Refer to :ref:`MPSL CX API <mpsl_api_sr_cx>` for details.
   * The initialization code initializing the required hardware resources, based on devicetree information.
   * A call to the function :c:func:`mpsl_cx_interface_set()` during the system initialization.
```

> #. Add necessary CMakeLists.txt entries to get your code compiled when the new Kconfig choice option you added is selected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Add the necessary CMakeLists.txt entries to get your code compiled when the new Kconfig choice option you added is selected.
```

.. _ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_1wire:

Bluetooth-only 1-wire coexistence
=================================

> Please refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_based` for general requirements of this implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Refer to :ref:`ug_radio_coex_bluetooth_only_based` for the general requirements of this implementation.
```

The Bluetooth-only 1-wire coexistence feature allows the :ref:`SoftDevice Controller <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller>` to coexist alongside an LTE device on a separate chip.

> It is specifically designed for the coex interface of nRF9160.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is specifically designed for the coex interface of the nRF9160.
```

> The implementation is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_bluetooth_coex_1wire` which is provided into the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The implementation is based on :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_bluetooth_coex_1wire`, which is provided into the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` (MPSL) library.
```

Enabling Bluetooth-only 1-wire coexistence
------------------------------------------

Make sure that the following Kconfig options are enabled:

   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX`
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MPSL_CX_BT_1WIRE`

> Configuration is set using the devicetree (DTS).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The configuration is set using devicetree (DTS).
```

For more information about devicetree overlays, see :ref:`zephyr:use-dt-overlays`.
A sample devicetree overlay is available at :file:`samples/bluetooth/radio_coex_1wire/boards/nrf52840dk_nrf52840.overlay`.
The elements are described in the bindings: :file:`dts/bindings/radio_coex/sdc-radio-coex-one-wire.yaml`.

> A sample application for 1-wire coexistence can be found at :file:`samples/bluetooth/radio_coex_1wire`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See :file:`samples/bluetooth/radio_coex_1wire` for a sample application using 1-wire coexistence.
```
